=pod

=head1 radius-ipset

radius-ipset allows you to restrict access to your network based on the
username and group membership. The restrictions are set every time a user logs
in and are removed after logging out and are not tied to any special
preallocation of network addresses, so you can freely give users IP addresses
from a pool.

Internally radius-ipset uses iptables and specific its ipset module. For using
this script group memberships have to be resolvable by the the I<groups>
command, though user accounts don't have to be so this is not a hard requirement.

=head1 Installation

To just use the radius-ipset module you need to install YAML::Tiny, which is a
fairly common module and can be installed on Debian system with:

  apt-get install libyaml-tiny-perl

This distribtion also ships the script vi-radius-ipset, which can be
used to edit the configuration file. It will lock the file and check
if its syntactically correct after changing it. It needs IO::Prompter,
File::Copy and Term::Readkey, which should be equally easy to install
in most distributions. Again for Debian:

  apt-get install libio-prompter-perl libterm-readkey-perl

Then you just need to copy the script to the corresponding directories. I
just demonstrate again for Debian, but it should be very similar on
other distributions. It just depends where your freeradius configuration
resides.

  cp bin/* /usr/local/sbin/
  cp modules/* /etc/freeradius/modules/

The module has to be activated in the accounting section of your site. On my
host I had to edit I</etc/freeradius/sites-enabled/default>.

  accounting {
        ...
        exec
        ipset
        ...
  }

=head1 Configuration

radius-ipset reads its configuration from I</etc/radius-ipset.yaml>. 

  includes:
    base:
    - 10.2.0.0/24:80
  default:
    include:
      - base
  groups:
    users:
      include:
      - base
      rules:
      - 10.1.0.0/24:80
      - 10.1.0.0/24:443
    admin:
      include:
      - base
      rules:
      - 10.1.0.0/24:22
      - 10.1.0.0/24:80
      - 10.1.0.0/24:443
  user:
    mdom:
      include:
      - base
      rules:
      - 10.1.0.0/25:8181
  setname: ipsec_allowed

All rules are additive and includes are treated as written out under
the rules section. If no user or group is matched the connected user get
access to all rules under the default section. The rules in the default
section are not automatically assigned to every connected user! The
setname shown here is the default.

=cut
